OK if you were with me in the last two videos we have now made it to the payoff where we actually learn
how to write requests using Python.
If you just skip to this section or if you skipped to this video.
Hello.
Let's see how we make requests from Python.
So there's a module for this.
There's actually a lot of modules that can do this a lot of different packages.
The most popular one though is called requests with an s.
So simple enough.
And here's the documentation for it.
You can see it has on get help alone almost 30000 people have started and way more people have used
it probably in the hundreds of thousands if not millions and the first thing we need to do before we
can actually make those HTP requests from Python is to install the package.
So it's called requests.
And from my terminal I'll run Python 3 Dasch am Pipp install.
Make sure you spell it correctly requests and actually deliberately didn't install this one.
I uninstalled it so that you could see what happens.
This is what you should see when you install.
Rather than in the past.
The other two modules or packages I've shown it just says hey you already installed this.
So now we've installed it and I'll just start by opening a Python 3 and doing it from the command line
and all imports requests just like that.
And all we have to do to actually make a request is use a method called GET or POST for the two types
of requests.
And we're going to focus on get requests for now.
So it's requests.
The name of the package datt get and then your read.
I want to get.
I don't know if you can hear my catch going nuts and we pass.
You are well.
So this is a web page called Hacker News.
The URL is news dot Y Combinator dot com.
If you haven't seen it it's sort of just tech startup news with a technical and programming slant on
it.
When I just enter this u r l and hit Enter I'm making a GET request that you are real.
We can do the same thing from our code.
So copy the URL and just paste it here requests.
Get this you are well.
It's good to do that exact same thing and ask for your DNS look up get the right IP address send request
a GET request.
That's with this you are Ellas and then it should come back with some sort of response.
And we want to do is capture that response in a variable.
So I'll just call it response.
This is up to us.
We could call it rez.
Maybe I'll do that and if we look at rez you can see that all we actually see right now is that there's
a status code 200.
But there's a couple of things I'll show you.
So rez.
OK.
It's going to be a boolean value.
True or false.
And so this request is OK.
We can look at our response headers so this includes all the meta data that came back.
Things like the date and the time the character encoding.
What else do we have the domain couple.
Just a bunch of things doesn't really matter at this point.
What's in there but I just want to show you that you can see the headers.
But most importantly we can see response or rez dot text and this is the main part of the response that
comes back.
It's a giant thing of age to him.
So this is not an API that we send a request to.
This is made for human eyes but this is the same thing we get back if we actually view the source of
this page.
As you can see here this is what we got back in our terminal.
It's just that our terminal doesn't know how to display it.
All this h t m l.
This is made for a browser so it would be better to request an API.
But I just wanted to show you that's all it takes to send a request requests don't get and then you
are well and we've sent our first request.
So now let's go out of here and let's put this in a file.
So I'll make a new file and I'll just call it first request.
Y.
So let's start by importing requests again and then let's make our first or second request I guess requests
get and save the response to a variable I'll call it response this time it could be read it could be
our response is good.
And then what I'm going to do is send a request to HTP colon slash slash w Google dot com and I'll show
you what happens if we leave off that HGP stuff in just a moment.
Let's save this to a variable though as a string.
They didn't copy the quotes and then pass it in here.
So I have a variable called you are out and this way I can just change the or else appear.
And if we use that anywhere else it will be changed everywhere.
So down here I'm going to start by just doing a print with an F string after the response will say your
request to.
And then we'll put in you are well.
And then let's do the status code was or came back with status code and then the way that we get the
status code is response status underscore code.
OK.
So this is just the way that we access the steps code.
So let's see if it works.
Might take a moment.
It says your request to HTP to read google.com came back with status code 200 meaning it worked.
And just to show you if I changed that you are to something that doesn't exist like that Google is.
We did this earlier in the section when I tried to request.
I got a 400 or a 404.
Let's see.
There we go.
I get a 4 or 4.
So the request is sent to Google then Google is like I don't know what you're asking for with this slash
SDH.
Blah blah.
I'm going to send you a page or a response that says Page Not Found.
So that's the first most basic thing that we can do.
I'm going to change this back just Google dot com and we will leave it at this.
If I do remove the HTP part and I try and make this request again I get an error now and it says invalid
you are well.
Google dot com.
No schema supplied.
It needs to know what protocol we're using and everything we're doing with HTP.
And so it suggests perhaps he meant HTP.
So we do need that part.
So I'll leave that in here.
So far we've done nothing with the API.
Everything that we've been doing all the requests we've sent have been to just plain old you or else
that are intended for humans that send back to him.
And in fact if we do a print and we do response text when we send the request excuse me to google we're
going to get a bunch of aged him all back.
It's going to look insane.
There we go.
Takes a while to print it all.
This is the actual response.
A bunch of age Tamal and Javascript made for the browser.
So what we're going to do in the next video is see how we can interact with an API and get data in a
different format that is much easier to work with that we can just take and turn into a dictionary or
into a python list.
And then we're ready to go and we can do something with it.
This is just a mess.
OK.
But we have made our first requests using requests.
The module don't get there we go.